Annotations - The Sugar Cane: Pages 48-60 (excluding footnotes on p. 60) 

Note: Upon starting, I noticed that there are some missing pages within this page range. After page 47, there are only four pages before the next numbered page, which is page 54.

The Sugar-Cane Book II Title Page - No annotations

Book II Advertisement  William Shenstone. William Shenstone (1714-1763), English poet and practitioner of landscape gardening. Graduate of Oxford.

Book II Argument - No annotations

53.9 Vulcan's aid. Vulcan, or Volcanus, Roman god of destructive fire. Vulcan is associated with fire that is man-made or made by natural means, e.g. lava from volcanoes.

54.15 The Boreal morn. Refers to the atmospheric phenomenon known as the *aurora borealis*, or Northern Lights.

55.38 gambols. Leaps or capers, as made in dancing or playing.

55.Fn.Ver.46 Pere Labat. Jean Baptiste Labat (1663/1664-1738), French missionary of the Dominican order, served as priest and procurator in Martinique and Guadaloupe. Liberated the island of Martinique from British control in 1703. Later, a professor of philosophy and mathematics in Nancy, France, and author of *Nouveau voyage aux Isles de l'Amerique*.

56.55 Gallic. Of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Gauls or Gaul (modern-day France). 

56.59 Albion's martial sons. Albion is a Celtic or pre-Celtic name for the largest of the British Isles. Albion's martial sons therefore connotes the warlike inhabitants of the island of Britain.

56.Fn.Ver.64 Pope Sixtus Quintus. Pope Sixtus V (1520/1521-1590), leader of the Catholic Church from 24 April 1585 to 27 August 1590. He was involved in international politics within Europe, including his attempt to halt the spread of Protestantism in France and abate Spain's mounting dominance.

57.69 Guayaquil. Guayaquil is a city in Ecuador, founded in 1537 by Spanish explorer Francisco de Orellana. The current-day city is close to the original settlement, Santiago de Guayaquil, which was destroyed twice by Native Americans at the mouth of the River Babahoyo. Named for St. James (Santiago used to denote St. James in Spanish) as well as the Indian chief, Guaya, and his wife, Quila. 

58.81 Gallia's sons. Gallia is a Romanesque term referring to Gaul, or the region of modern-day France. The terms "Gallia's sons" refers to the French. 

58.83 Misnian arsenic. A chemical compound used as rat poison.

59.Fn.Ver.95 Newman's Chemistry published by Dr. Lewis. William Lewis (baptised 1708-died 1781), English physician and experimental chemist, practiced medicine and lectured on medical and pharmaceutical topics. Author of *Chemical Works of Caspar Neumann* (1759).  

59.Fn.Ver.95 Mungoes. The Mongoose (genus and species unspecified), was an animal used to abate rat infestations on sugar plantations.