---
layout: poem
title: "page 77"
editor: Kimberly Takahata
source: "1764 edition"
---


[77]()

- He oft distinguish'd; and for whom he oft
- Had climb'd the bending coco's airy height,
- To rob it of its nectar; which the maid,

---

> VER. 438. *the bending coco's*\] The coco-nut tree is of the palm genus; there are several species of them, which grow naturally in the Torrid Zone. The coco-nut tree is, by no means, so useful as travellers have represented it. The wood is of little or no service, being spungy, and the brown covering of the nuts is of too rough a texture to serve as apparel. The shell of the nut receives a good polish; and, having a handle put to it, is commonly used to drink water out of. The milk, or water of the nut, is cooling and pelasant; but, if drunk too freely, will frequently occasion a pain in the stomach. A salutary oil may be extracted from the kernel; which, if old, and eaten too plentifully, is apt to produce a shortness of breathing. A species of arrack is made form this tree, in the West-Indies. The largest coco-nut trees grow on the banks of the river Oronoko. They thrive best near the sea, and look beautiful at a distance. They afford no great shade. Ripe nuts have been produced from them in three years after planting. The nuts should be macerated in water, before they are put in the ground. Coco is an Indian name; the Spaniards call it also *palma de las Indias*; as the smallest kind, whose nuts are less than walnuts, is termed by them *Coquillo*. This grows in Chili, and the nuts are esteemed more delicate than those of a larger size. In the Maldivy Islands, it is pretended, they not only build houses of the coco-nut tree, but also vessels, with all their rigging; nay, and load them too with wine, oil, vinegar, black sugar, fruit, and strong water, from the same tree. If this be true, the Maldivian coco-nut trees must differ widely form those that grow in the West-Indies. The coco must not be confounded with the coco-nut tree. That shrub grows in the hottest and moistest vales of the Andes. Its leaf, which is gathered two or three times a year, is much coveted by the natives of South-America, who will travel great journeys upon a single handful of the leaves, which they do not swallow, but only chew. It is of an unpleasant taste, but, by use, soon grows agreeable. Some authors have also confounded the coco-nut palm, with the coco, or chocolate-tree. The French call the coco-nut tree, *Cocotier*. Its stem, which is very lofty, is always bent; for which reason it looks better in an orchard than in a regular garden. As one limb fades, another shoots up in the center, like a pike. The botanical name is *Palma indica*, *coccifera*, *angulosa*.